# Embeddings_based_STS_using_LIME_XAI

In this project we are finding the semantic text similarity between 5 different sentence pairs using 5 different **sentence-transformers**. Later on, we will be giving easily interpretable visual explanations using **LIME Explainable AI (XAI)**. The goal of this project is to understand if LIME can be a useful XAI tool to obtain explanations for semantic similarity results generated by any model. Also, to check if we can use this model to identify ambiguity error. 

The 5 sentence pairs are used based on 5 different categories checking their semantic and syntactic similarity.

Sentence 1 | Sentence 2 | Semantic Similarity | Syntactic Similarity
--- | --- | --- | ---
I love to watch a lot of movies | I hate to watch movies | No | Yes
I love all animals | Dog is my favorite animal | Yes | No
I love birds | I love peacocks | Yes | Yes
Rini is my childhood friend | I recently met Rini | No | No
I lost my watch | I will watch out for you | No | Yes

The 5 different models are used based on their performance, speed and size for carrying out semantic similarity task.

Transformer | Performance | Speed | Model Size
--- | --- | --- | ---
all-MiniLM-L6-v2 | 58.80 | 14200 | 80 MB
paraphrase-MiniLM-L6-v2 | 52.56 | 14200 | 80 MB
paraphrase-albert-small-v2 | 52.25 | 5000 | 43 MB
all-mpnet-base-v2  | **63.30** | 2800 | 420MB
all-MiniLM-L12-v2 | 59.76 | 7500 | 120MB

The first 2 models were chosen since they have the best processing speed than the rest. Nonetheless, as the name suggest "paraphrase-MiniLM-L6-v2", this model is particularly aimed for paraphrased texts analysis which makes it a right choice for using it in this research. Since, our focus was implementing explainable semantic similarity for English language at the moment, the next model we decided was "paraphrase-albert-small-v2" since, it was the best performing model for English language. The "all-mpnet-base-v2" model was chosen as it showed the best quality output for semantic search. The 5th model "all-MiniLM-L12-v2" is the 4th best model according to the source for semantic similarity task and it could also give better results of all. Hence that model was chosen for this research.

Reference: https://www.sbert.net/docs/pretrained_models.html


The experiments showed that LIME is not an ideal choice to obtain semantic text similarity explainations due to the poor quality of output generated. Although, LIME could successfully identify and highlight ambiguous words which could eventually help us identify ambiguity error.